Rewrite "Domain Name System (DNS) records" page (#4485)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/dns.html.md

gds aws govuk-production-poweruser -- aws route53 list-hosted-zones | grep Name
```

## Overview of GOV.UK domains

GOV.UK is responsible for more than just the `www.gov.uk` domain.
The [GOV.UK proposition](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/govuk-proposition/govuk-proposition#what-the-govuk-proposition-covers) lists the domains we're responsible for. These are:

- www.gov.uk
- service.gov.uk
- data.gov.uk
- blog.gov.uk
- campaign.gov.uk
- independent.gov.uk
- api.gov.uk

There are lots of other `*.gov.uk` domains, such as `cityoflondon.gov.uk`, which are managed by Cabinet Office.

> In theory, the GOV.UK proposition domains should all be managed by GDS (who use [Jisc](https://www.jisc.ac.uk/): a non-profit that provides networking to UK education and government). In practice, a couple of GOV.UK proposition domains are managed by Cabinet Office, and a couple of non-proposition domains are in the Government Digital Service Jisc account. [This is being looked at](https://trello.com/c/qNpyVaC5/3228-consolidate-co-vs-non-co-domains-in-govuks-jisc-account) by Platform Security & Reliability.

Author: Wondering if we need some sort of 'terminology' section to describe Cabinet Office vs Government Digital Service vs GOV.UK?

The doc pretty much refers to GOV.UK and Government Digital Service interchangeably, though I've tried to use the right one in context, i.e. "Government Digital Service" _is_ the name of our Jisc account, and "GOV.UK" is the department linked to the proposition, etc.

### The `api.gov.uk` domain

This domain is currently administered by Cabinet Office, but delegated to GOV.UK. GOV.UK itself then delegates subdomains (such as www.api.gov.uk) back to Cabinet Office, as well as other subdomains (such as driver-vehicle-licensing.api.gov.uk) to other organisations.

The `api.gov.uk` domain has [A records](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-dns-tf/blob/552278f8cb155999185aa307124cbae226ad5da4/zones/api.gov.uk.yaml#L3-L8) pointing to Fastly's virtual IP addresses.

`www.api.gov.uk` is a [CNAME to `co-cddo.github.io.`](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-dns-tf/blob/552278f8cb155999185aa307124cbae226ad5da4/zones/api.gov.uk.yaml#L26-L29).

The Platform Security & Reliability team are [looking at the future management of the api.gov.uk domain](https://trello.com/c/8aXqoeCN).

## Other domains we manage

GOV.UK manages DNS zones for some non-`gov.uk` domains (e.g. `independent-inquiry.uk`). Another example is `alphagov.co.uk`, which is the old domain name GOV.UK publishing used to live on - we maintain records which point to Bouncer so that these URLs redirect.

> Some of these domains are managed by us for legacy reasons. Others are defensively registered variations of domains that are in the GOV.UK proposition.

Author: Citation needed. I'm assuming we only have domains like `independent-inquiry.uk` because `independent.gov.uk` is in the GOV.UK proposition...?

Reviewer: I believe `independent-inquiry.uk` is not a `gov.uk` domain for policy reasons — something to do with it needing to be seen as independent from the government iirc. Definitely talk with Policy and Strategy to understand this before writing about it.

Author: Sure - happy to remove this 👍

The [GOV.UK proposition](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/govuk-proposition/govuk-proposition#what-the-govuk-proposition-covers) lists the domains we're responsible for. These are:

- www.gov.uk
- service.gov.uk
- data.gov.uk
- blog.gov.uk
- campaign.gov.uk
- independent.gov.uk
- api.gov.uk

There are lots of other `*.gov.uk` domains, such as `cityoflondon.gov.uk`, which are managed by Cabinet Office (who use Nominet).

In theory, the GOV.UK proposition domains should all be managed by GOV.UK (who use [Jisc](https://www.jisc.ac.uk/): a non-profit that provides networking to UK education and government). In practice, a couple of GOV.UK proposition domains are managed by Cabinet Office, and a couple of non-proposition domains are in GOV.UK's Jisc account. [This is being looked at](https://trello.com/c/qNpyVaC5/3228-consolidate-co-vs-non-co-domains-in-govuks-jisc-account) by Platform Security & Reliability.

In most cases, DNS zones are hosted by both AWS (Route 53) and Google Cloud Platform (Cloud DNS). See [Amazon Route53 vs Google Cloud in the govuk-dns-tf README](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-dns-tf#amazon-route53-vs-google-cloud)

### The `gov.uk` domain

> This is managed by Cabinet Office. `gov.uk.` is an apex domain so it [cannot have a CNAME record](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1912#section-2.4). Instead, it has A records that point directly to Fastly virtual IP addresses, resolving to the [Production TLD Redirect](https://manage.fastly.com/configure/services/7IaQm6UK3NiQu0v0E83YKn) service, which performs a redirect to `www.gov.uk`.

Reviewer: Yeah — and either way "The `gov.uk` domain ... is managed by Cabinet Office" is less than entirely accurate at best.

> This is managed by Cabinet Office. `gov.uk.` is an apex domain so it [cannot have a CNAME record](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1912#section-2.4). Instead, it has A records that point directly to Fastly virtual IP addresses, resolving to the [Production TLD Redirect](https://manage.fastly.com/configure/services/7IaQm6UK3NiQu0v0E83YKn) service, which performs a redirect to `www.gov.uk`.

Author: Which bit of it are you not sure is true? "Managed by Cabinet Office", apex domain / A records, or production redirect? AFAICT that's the current state of play. I don't remember ever seeing a `gov.uk` domain in Jisc, suggesting that it moved to the CO account before I became a Lead.

I removed the bit saying how to make changes (via "emailing `naming@ja.net` from someone on Jisc's approved contacts") because I imagine that process _has_ changed - if gov.uk is managed by CO, then we're quite likely not on the list of approved contacts. It's also likely that only someone from Senior Tech would be actioning changes.

> This is managed by Cabinet Office. `gov.uk.` is an apex domain so it [cannot have a CNAME record](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1912#section-2.4). Instead, it has A records that point directly to Fastly virtual IP addresses, resolving to the [Production TLD Redirect](https://manage.fastly.com/configure/services/7IaQm6UK3NiQu0v0E83YKn) service, which performs a redirect to `www.gov.uk`.

Reviewer: @ChrisBAshton it seems to me you're conflating a bunch different aspects of "managing" the domain here. Probably worth a re-think of this doc in terms of: 1) who is the intended audience 2) what is the reader trying to do when they find this doc?

Then if you find it still makes sense to include this level of detail then we work together to make sure that what you're writing is accurate as well as meeting the reader's needs.

> This is managed by Cabinet Office. `gov.uk.` is an apex domain so it [cannot have a CNAME record](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1912#section-2.4). Instead, it has A records that point directly to Fastly virtual IP addresses, resolving to the [Production TLD Redirect](https://manage.fastly.com/configure/services/7IaQm6UK3NiQu0v0E83YKn) service, which performs a redirect to `www.gov.uk`.

Reviewer: e.g. much of this is unlikely to be relevant to GOV.UK developers and has potential to cause/amplify confusion rather than helping — more info isn't always better.

> This is managed by Cabinet Office. `gov.uk.` is an apex domain so it [cannot have a CNAME record](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1912#section-2.4). Instead, it has A records that point directly to Fastly virtual IP addresses, resolving to the [Production TLD Redirect](https://manage.fastly.com/configure/services/7IaQm6UK3NiQu0v0E83YKn) service, which performs a redirect to `www.gov.uk`.

Author: I rephrased it to "administered by Cabinet Office", but perhaps "registered by Cabinet Office" makes more sense?
(Though I'm hoping the `www.gov.uk` domain will come under GOV.UK ownership and we can remove some of these surprises).

The intended audience is any engineer who wants to get an understanding of why we manage the domains we manage (the GOV.UK proposition otherwise has zero mentions in the Dev Docs so far), as well as the numerous gotchas for each of the said domains.

(The technicals around applying DNS changes are documented elsewhere - in govuk-dns-tf - and the policies are documented in the linked Google playbook).

### The `www.gov.uk` domain

> This is managed by Cabinet Office.

Author: Yep, I think we should be the ones managing this. It's on my list to sort out once the Jisc org rename stuff has settled.

### The `campaign.gov.uk` domain

This is managed in GOV.UK's Jisc account.

We have a [wildcard CNAME](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-dns-tf/blob/1be5ae58e82fb47f0e42cc6f7c2507b424fa9200/zones/campaign.gov.uk.yaml#L91-L95) delegating all subdomains of `campaign.gov.uk` to our provider, DXW.

There are a handful of campaign subdomains that have their own specific NS records or CNAME, which take precedence over the wildcard ([example](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-dns-tf/blob/1be5ae58e82fb47f0e42cc6f7c2507b424fa9200/zones/campaign.gov.uk.yaml#L54-L60)).

### The `independent.gov.uk` domain

The domain itself is owned by Cabinet Office, and its delegation is also managed by Cabinet Office.

[The management of the domain is being looked at](https://trello.com/c/qNpyVaC5/3228-consolidate-co-vs-non-co-domains-in-govuks-jisc-account) by Platform Security & Reliability.

Relatedly, there are a [number of `independent-*.uk` domains managed by GOV.UK](#other-domains-we-manage).

### The `api.gov.uk` domain

> The domain itself is owned by Cabinet Office, but delegated to GOV.UK, who then delegate it back to Cabinet Office.

Reviewer 2: wat

Author: Yes, exactly! CO/CDDO already manage the third level `api.gov.uk` domain in Jisc/Nominet but currently point to GDS to define the name servers for the `*.api.gov.uk` fourth level domains. And we then just point `www` to a CDDO-owned CNAME (and also manage a handful of other api subdomains).

They own the guidance at https://www.gov.uk/guidance/get-an-api-domain-on-govuk and they manage any requests that come in for new API domains. The fact we handle the technical delegation of said requests is a quirk from when CDDO was part of GDS, I think?

Anyhow, we're in conversation with CDDO about moving over api.gov.uk to them. We're expecting an update on that by the end of February.

Reviewer 2: Ahh, that is a bit of a wat, but I think I was confused by "delegate it back":

```suggestion
The domain itself is owned by Cabinet Office, but delegated to GOV.UK, who then delegate subdomains (such as www.api.gov.uk) back to Cabinet Office, and other subdomains (such as driver-vehicle-licensing.api.gov.uk) to other organisations.
```
